
# 2hdm_constraint

## Description

This project contains code that imposes constraints on 2HDM parameters from model-independent vertex functions. The technique constrains Beyond Standard Model (BSM) theory parameters by using experimental limits on anomalous couplings. The 2HDM parameter space was constrained using experimental limits on anomalous ZZZ and ZWW couplings from LHC experiments.

From a technical point of view, the calculations were performed within the Wolfram Mathematica software environment. Several specific supplementary packages were used for the calculations, according to the following scheme:
1. For a given process, the set of Feynman diagrams are drawn with the FeynArts package.
2. Based on this set, the amplitudes are calculated for all diagrams with the FeynCalc package.
3. The Passarino-Veltman reduction of loop integrals is done with the LoopTools package.
4. The numerical calculations of Passarino-Veltman functions are done with the LoopTools package.

To eliminate dependence on the 4-momentum, a method was used to obtain the total cross-section of the reaction using the experimental coupling value in a Monte Carlo simulation and comparing it with the obtained cross-section.

## Goal

The primary goal of this project is to develop and justify the use of anomalous vertex functions for various models and test this method on the 2HDM model.

## Project Structure

The project consists of the following main code blocks:

1. **Mathematica Code Block**: Used to calculate vertex functions in the 2HDM model and to analyze the dependencies of these amplitudes on the model parameters.
    - `ZZZ_amp.wl`
    - `ZWW_amp.wl`
    - `Vertex_graphs.wl`

2. **PDF Generation Block**: Generates PDFs using the LHAPDF package for Python.
    - `/pdfcode/PDF.py`

3. **Amplitude Calculation Block**: Calculates the amplitude of the process qq->h using MadGraph in C++.
    - `qqH_ME`

## Installation and Setup

To install and set up the project, follow these steps:

1. **Main Calculation File**: The primary file for cross-section calculation is `pp_H_gg_copy.wl`. Running and executing this file will output the calculated cross-section, which should be compared with the simulated value using the Monte Carlo vertex function.

2. **Required Text Files**: Ensure you have the necessary text files for the PDF, qq-H amplitude, and h-gg amplitude. These files are generated by:
    - `PDF.py`
    - The `check` program located at `qqH_ME/bbh/SubProcesses/P1_Sigma_sm_full_bbx_h`

## Contribution

If you have questions, corrections, or suggestions, please send them to dskalashnikov@mephi.ru.


## Contact

For any questions related to this project, you can contact:
- Dmitry Kalashnikov: [dskalashnikov@mephi.ru](mailto:dskalashnikov@mephi.ru)
